---
layout: post
title: "First Year Engineering Design: Praxis I"
excerpt: "A chair attachment to aid hip replacement surgery patients with sitting."
modified: 4/24/2020, 18:28:00
tags: [jekyll]
comments: true
category: project
---

Praxis I: My First Engineering Design Experience
================================================

As a first year student from a small town in Newfoundland and Labrador, my first year atthe University of Toronto was full of new experiences.  Our first year design course, PraxisI, was certainly one of them.  While our technical lecture courses were certainly a changeof pace from what I was used to in high school, they were more or less the same in termsof learning style and structure.  Praxis I on the other hand was completely different.  Thefocus was completely on Engineering Design, and development as an Engineer.  The deliveryof materials was less structured, but most importantly, the final objective wasn’t to solveproblems  on  a  test  paper,  but  to  actually  deliver  a  prototype  of  a  relevant  design  whichcould have an impact on stakeholders in the GTA. We were grouped in teams of four, andtold to brainstorm ideas and come up with a meaningful project.  From there,  it was upto us to go through all the elements of the design project we learned in lecture and try toconverge to a prototype for our design that we could justify.  To this day, Praxis I was one ofmy favorite design experiences during my undergraduate career and it laid the foundationfor what I know to be engineering design today.

The project: Design of a Chair Attachment for Hip Replacement SurgeryPatients
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

The design project our team decided to pursue was a chair attachment for hip replacement surgery patients. The idea was to design a portable device that post-surgery recovery patients could easily take around with them, allowing them to prop themselves up on a seat to avoid causing a less than 90-degree bend at the hip. The final model of the device we designed is shown in figure...

Inspiration from someone close
------------------------------

The inspiration from the project actually came from my great uncle, who had hip replacement surgery not long before I started the course. Our team brainstorming ideas for a project, and we wanted to find something meaningful that would have a positive impact on some community of people. My other uncle had actually designed a full-scale chair himself for my uncle that had the procedure (). After speaking with him and describing his device to the team, we were inspired to build a device that serves a similar purpose with more portability. Working on something we knew would be appreciated from first hand experience made the project all the more worthwhile and enjoyable.

The desing process and prototyping
----------------------------------

In Praxis I, we were introduced to Engineering design strategies and practices, such as diverging and converging on design ideas, using reference designs (), framing the problem in terms of objectives, requirements, constraints, and criteria, and considering stakeholder interests. We learned many things in Praxis I, but these were the ones which stuck with me especially, and I continued to think about during all my future design work. For figures illustrating some of our team's design work, see the Appendix.

Team chemistry
--------------

I was fortunate enough to have a really phenomenal team for Praxis I (). None of us knew each other before the project began, but we were all really creative individuals who had a high level of respect for the others' opinions. I learned that when teamwork goes this way - with freedom and a level of comfort to be creative, open-mindedness and respect, and logical reasoning with some solid analytical foundations - great things can happen.
