---
layout: post
title: "First Year Engineering Design: Praxis II"
excerpt: "A project for improving storage efficiency with Ontario Wheelchair Sports."
modified: 4/24/2020, 18:33:00
tags: [jekyll]
comments: true
category: project
---

In the second-semester version of the Praxis series, our team of 4 had to go out and find a group or organization within the GTA that could benefit from an engineering design project. As opposed to Praxis I, a large component of the course was working together with this group to draft a Request for Proposal (RFP) for a project based on their needs.

Our team worked with the Ontario Para Network (ONPARA - formerly the Ontario Wheelchair Sports Association) to draft an RFP to design an efficient storage system for their equipment. Sports wheelchairs are bulky, and to our knowledge there was no standard method or system for storing and transporting them efficiently. ONPARA had a large fleet of these wheelchairs which they transport regularly to events promoting wheelchair sports around the GTA, so they were especially interested in a solution. Other organizations like the Variety Village sports complex were interested in a solution because their disabled athletes had trouble accessing their wheelchairs the way their current storage room was configured.

Over a series of interviews and site visits, our team worked with these organizations to draft an outline of the project. A major focus of the course was to frame the problem in the context of engineering design and develop metrics, requirements, constraints, and criteria that other teams would be able to use to evaluate their own design proposals. Examples of some of the framing we came up with are shown in the slides at the end of the page.

When I reflect on this part of the course... It taught me that there’s more to engineering design than just the design itself. Working with stakeholders to frame the problem and identify design requirements is an important part of the process. 

Biggest takeaways:
⁃	

My contributions:
⁃   communication with clients and stakeholders to arrange meeting times and interviews
⁃
